[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
Gaiam "Inspirations."
We are broadcasting from
the Conscious Life Expo
here in Los Angeles.
So have you been studying
consciousness for a long time,
and you find that you
are resorting back
to those bad habits, and
they never really change?
Well, joining me
is Dr. Dain Heer.
He is the co-creator of
Access Consciousness which
is being taught in 40
countries around the world
for the past 15 years.
Now, Dain has joined me before
on Gaiam "Inspirations."
And I wanted him to come
back, because I wanted
you to actually see some
of the techniques of Access
Consciousness.
If you'd like to hear
more about Dain's story,
you can watch the replays of
my past interviews with him.
But he's here to share with us,
for the first time on camera,
some of the techniques
of Access Consciousness.
Welcome.
>>DAIN HEER: Welcome.
Thank you so much.
It's so great to be with you.
>>LISA: I am so excited.
>>HEER: As am I.
>>LISA: We haven't gotten
a chance to do this.
I've been in some
of your workshops.
I've experienced the energy,
which is phenomenal and not
from this planet.
>>HEER: Yeah.
It's actually not.
But I'm not going to say
much more about that.
See, what I find is if-- one
of the things that happens
is if you tell somebody
it's not from here
or whatever, they tend to
make that part significant.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>HEER: What I'd
rather have them
have is an experience of the
energy, use some of this,
and see what it
changes in their lives.
Because if they get that,
then it'll be theirs forever.
>>LISA: So one of
the things that I
love about you is that you
have an absolute fierce passion
for the truth.
You cannot be any other way.
>>HEER: Gets me in
trouble sometimes.
But I'm one of these
people that-- you know,
and I won't impose
it on anybody else.
But to have somebody speak
something in my presence
that's not actually
what's going on--
>>LISA: It doesn't fit does it?
>>HEER: No, it's grating.
It's kind of like
nails on a chalkboard.
>>LISA: I love your
perspectives on things.
They're fresh.
They're unique.
They're different.
But they are also
sometimes shocking to me.
Because I had been so
enrolled in the process that,
oh, self-help helps everyone.
>>HEER: Right.
>>LISA: So I mean, what is
your perspective about why
people don't change and have
repeated bad habits over
and over, and then they
seem to just take over
like a hungry lion?
>>HEER: Well, I think there
are many-- we could have
an entire show on just that
one question, as you know.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: But one of the
things is that what
we've been taught to do is to
come to conclusion in our lives
rather than function
from question.
And what do I mean by that?
Well, let's say you're unhappy.
You know there's
something different.
And so you pick up
a book about angels.
And you're like, oh my
god, angels are the answer.
>>LISA: Right.
>>HEER: Because that
was your next step.
But what if that's
just one piece
of an entire universe
of possibilities?
And what people do is they
stop themselves with angels.
And then you come up to them
and you're like, oh my god,
my left ankle hurts.
And I don't know what to do.
And they're like, oh my god,
you need to see an angel.
You need to pray
to an angel right
now, because angels
are the answer.
Do you know what I mean?
>>LISA: Yeah.
Yeah.
And so what you're saying
is that that's just
the first step, because it
might go beyond the angels.
So that's why so
many different people
look for other
modalities in self-help,
because it's a layering process?
>>HEER: What I'd say is rather
than even being a first step,
what if you could have
angels and you could have,
oh, I don't know,
vibrational healing?
And you could have your
awareness of asking questions.
And you could have POC and POD,
one of my personal favorites,
which is where you can
undo what hasn't changed.
And what if you could
have body processes?
In other words,
let's not just focus
on this tiny little
piece of the pie.
It's like one grain
of sand on the beach.
Let's have the entire
beach, and the ocean,
and the trees, and the
waves, and the sun,
and have all of it?
>>LISA: Is that how
you live your life?
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Completely full?
>>HEER: As often
as I possibly can.
You know, and that's the thing.
People say, oh my gosh, you
must be conscious of perfect.
I'm like, I'm sorry,
who are you looking at?
It's like, I got my life.
And I do my best
to walk my talk.
I don't claim to be perfect.
I don't claim to be
totally conscious.
I don't claim to
be totally aware.
But I'm doing my darnedest
to become that way.
And when you say, is that the
way I'm living in my life,
it's like, to the
best of my ability.
Do I screw up sometimes?
Heck yeah.
And the thing I love about
Access Consciousness is
our definition of
consciousness is
where everything exists
and nothing is judged.
Meaning, even when
you screw up, you
don't have to make
yourself wrong for it.
>>LISA: Yeah.
But you don't seem to care
what other people think
when you do screw up.
>>HEER: That's true.
>>LISA: Where does
that come from?
>>HEER: I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I think part of where it
comes from for me personally
is-- and I don't know
if I've said this on air
with you before, but
it's like-- I literally
grew up in the ghetto, OK?
I was the only white child you
saw for eight square miles.
Now that didn't matter
until I was eight years old,
and I got beaten
up the first time
for being a different
color than everybody else.
Well, and I experienced
a huge amount of abuse
while I was growing up
there, mental, physical,
psychological, and a lot of
sexual and physical abuse.
Well, so that set
me up to the point
where 14 years ago, I
was going to kill myself.
Because I didn't seem to be able
to do anything successfully.
I felt like everything I did,
no matter what technique I did,
no matter what
seminar I went to,
I always thought I
found the answer,
and then by
Wednesday morning, it
felt like the world crashed
in on my head again.
And I got to this place that
gave me, what I would say,
is total freedom.
I got to a place where I
went, you know what, universe?
I'm done.
I am tired of trying to make
the world a more aware place.
I'm tired of trying to make
the world a better place.
If my life has to feel like
this, I'm killing myself.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>HEER: You got six months.
Either my life changes,
or I'm out of here.
And I was dead serious in
more ways than one possibly.
>>LISA: Hm-hmm.
>>HEER: And I
literally thought I
was going to get to
end it and leave.
Because I'd made my
demand, and I thought,
there's nothing that's
going to change it.
I've done everything
that possibly could.
And along came
Access Consciousness.
Within one session of
doing something called
The Bars, which is these
32 points on the head, I
literally, as soon as the
woman started the session
and put her hands on my
head, I felt this energy move
through my body that
was like liquid peace
and love combined--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>HEER: -and,
like, being cradled
in the arms of the universe.
And I started crying and
laughing at the same time.
And I was like, wow.
I got up after this
session, and I never
contemplated killing
myself again.
But in answer to your question--
>>LISA: But why?
Because you found
something else?
>>HEER: That's a great question.
>>LISA: Did you
find purpose there?
Did you find peace?
What did you find?
>>HEER: It was a
sense of belonging,
a sense of no wrongness.
>>LISA: Belonging to what?
>>HEER: Everything.
>>LISA: Something greater?
>>HEER: Well everything
is definitely
greater than who I
was being at the time.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: But it was a sense
of belonging to the universe
really and having the
universe belong with me.
Because I felt so separate.
When you feel-- you know,
and I hope nobody out
there is experiencing this.
And I'm sure a lot
of people probably
are more than they're even
invited to acknowledge,
which is the sad part for me.
Because if you can acknowledge
it, you can change it.
But what I was
experiencing was when
you feel this depression, when
you feel this unhappiness,
it's like you feel
like somehow you
must be doing something wrong.
You know, and I had all
the books on my shelf.
You know?
>>LISA: That told you
how to do it right.
>>HEER: Exactly.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: And you all the books
I have, because you probably
have them on your shelf.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: And probably
a lot of people
at home have them on
their shelves, right?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: And still I was
waking up feeling this way
and living feeling
this way putting
one foot in front of the other.
And I knew there had to
be something different.
So when you say, what did
I get after this session,
it was almost like I
got out of wrongness
for the first time in my life.
I got out of the sense that
I should be disconnected,
and I was somehow a
bad person or a bad guy
or something, which was really
what I had inflicted on me when
my body was abused.
I mean, at one
point, I had women
standing over my
hitting me with belts
to try to prove that I
was wrong for being a man.
And how do you take that
and those experiences?
And one thing I'd say to
anybody who's ever been abused,
you know what?
If you've broken that cycle,
and you're not doing it
to other people,
you far more courage
than you've ever acknowledged.
And you are here to
change the world.
And there's nothing
wrong with you.
>>LISA: In that
pattern of abuse,
there is such a
violation of trust
that, especially if it's done
from a parent or a loved one,
that it completely breaks that
trust or your relationship
with the world
forever after that.
How do you put
that back together?
>>HEER: I want to say one thing.
And it seems like that, it
changes your relationship
with the world forever.
>>LISA: Right.
>>HEER: What I found with
Access Consciousness is
it doesn't have to
be forever anymore.
That forever can change.
That forever can
stop working-- See,
I was very fortunate
to be able to come
into Access
Consciousness at a time
where the founder, Gary
Douglas, who has been around
for 25 years, he literally had
time to take me under his wing.
And we started working together.
And I started actually
being able to contribute.
And within about two years
of coming into Access,
I had divulged this,
that I'd been hiding
in my world, this thing
about having been abused.
Because I was getting
the visuals of it,
I was getting the awareness of
it, and it was starting to
come into my world again.
I was like, oh, I
thought I was over this.
You know?
And with his help, because we
function from asking questions,
with his help, I
actually got to the place
where I finally
did undo all of it,
where it no longer ran any
part of my life anymore.
>>LISA: You
reestablished the trust?
>>HEER: I basically
reestablished the trust--
>>LISA: You did.
>>HEER: --in me and
in the universe.
And I realized, you know what?
There wasn't anything wrong
with me that made that happen.
And I want to say that again to
everybody out there listening.
If you've experienced
abuse, it's
not because there's
something wrong with you.
But if you look at that,
abuse is an intense experience
of the sense of
wrongness, the sense you
must be doing something wrong.
But if you look at that as sort
of a far end of the spectrum
of things you can
experience, if you
go back to what a lot of
people are experiencing,
they're still experiencing a
sense of the wrongness of them.
They still have
a sense that wow,
this relationship didn't
work out because I was wrong.
>>LISA: Every day, right?
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HEER: My mother doesn't
love me because I was wrong.
Any of those things that
they're experiencing
or have as their point of view
about the wrongness of them,
I've seen that
change dynamically
with the people
who come to Access
and actually use the tools.
And it's one of
the greatest gifts
I can think of giving somebody,
them getting out of the idea
that they're actually wrong.
>>LISA: Now, how does this Bars
technique release that or start
to release that in someone.
>>HEER: You know, I'll
tell you from my awareness
of what it does.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HEER: I can't actually
tell you scientifically.
>>LISA: Right.
>>HEER: Because all I know is
what it doesn't energetically.
If somebody out there wants to
come and study it, and tell us
why it does what it does, I
would so love to hear that.
>>LISA: Wow.
Yeah.
>>HEER: But it's
like this, as far
as I can tell you--
so there are 32
different points on the head.
They have names like joy,
and sadness, money, body,
sexuality, aging, creativity.
And what happens is,
as you hold that point,
the positive and negative
charge that you've
developed around that
subject starts dissipating.
>>LISA: Inside me?
>>HEER: Yeah.
Inside of you.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HEER: And so
what happens, it's
like the person working on
you just gives you the space.
They're just being there with
you touching these points
really lightly,
whatever the point is.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>HEER: And what happens is
that starts dissipating for you.
And it's the
positive and negative
that creates the
static in our lives.
>>LISA: So they don't have to
bring in the light from God
and the universe and all
the angels sing and then
the points--
>>HEER: Right.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HEER: No.
And the thing is that's the
wonderful part about this
is that there's no form, no
structure, no significance
to it.
And thing about it is--
>>LISA: I'm not saying, by the
way, that that light from God
and the angels and the
universe doesn't sing.
>>HEER: Right, exactly.
>>LISA: But I'm saying
anyone can do this.
>>HEER: Anyone can do it.
>>LISA: Once you learn it.
>>HEER: That's exactly the
point is anybody can do it.
And some of the people
you'd least expect
would be good at it are some
of the best people at it
in the world.
Because they just sit there
with no point of view.
And they just love
to contribute.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>HEER: And the thing
that you were saying
about the angels
and the light of God
and all of that, what
I've noticed is people
start to recognize,
wow, I am the angels.
I am the light of God.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>HEER: We are actually oneness.
>>LISA: Nice.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
All right.
Well, Dain is going
to do this on me--
>>HEER: Oh, yay.
>>LISA: --and give me the
opportunity to experience this.
>>HEER: Yay!
OK.
So first thing is you don't
want your hands crossing.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HEER: You want them
actually like that.
Because the thing is if
you cross your fingers,
the energy of this stops.
It's one of the only times
there's "don't" in Access.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>HEER: So what I'm
going to do, guys,
is I'm going to show
you just a few of these.
And even a few of these,
though, if you just get these,
they're really simple.
The reason I'm going
to show them to you
is because they're
really simple to find,
they're really easy to learn.
And if you do this-- I'll
talk to you a little bit more
as we go, as we work on Lisa--
but basically what happens
is the place we're
going to start
is with something
called the Energy Pool.
And what you want to
do-- see, most people
don't have that much energy
running in their bodies
unless they sort of
exercise, unless they
connect with them in some way.
What this can do--
and this works really
well for people who are sort of
disconnected from their bodies
or people who have a
disease process going on.
Because in a disease
process, your body
stops the energy
it has available.
Let's waken this up,
bring it to life again.
Well, and it's not just for
disease process, however.
OK.
So here's what
we're going to do.
You're going to put one hand
on the back of the head.
If you are
anatomically inclined,
you call it the octopus.
No, I'm sorry the occiput.
Bad doctor, bad doctor.
OK.
You call it the occiput,
OK, or the octopus.
And then you put three
fingers on the third eye.
Now, what you're
doing right now is
you're just asking for the
energy to come from the earth,
through her feet, through
her body, through your hands,
and out the top of your head.
>>LISA: It feels like you
just put a helmet on my head,
I mean, an energy helmet.
>>HEER: Right?
Isn't it?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: And you feel it.
And you're like, whoa, OK.
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
>>HEER: And what happens, now,
if you're at home watching,
what I'd invite
you to do is just
put your feet on the floor, and
feel your feet on the floor.
Feel your butt on the couch
or wherever you're sitting.
Cool.
>>LISA: Take a breath.
>>HEER: And just take a breath.
And notice if you don't start to
perceive some lightness or some
of this starting
to work for you.
Because what happens
is in doing it on Lisa
and her body, what
happens is our bodies
resonate like each other.
Like if you've ever seen a
seven-year-old child that
walks exactly like their
40-year-old parent,
why is that?
Because their bodies
learn to resonate.
And it creates the same
places where they stop moving
and keep moving.
This is actually using that
resonance on our behalf
instead of against us.
So now Lisa's done
in this direction.
So now we're going
to ask the energy
to go the other direction,
out through her feet.
Now, if she were lying on a
table, which is one common way
this is done.
I would be at her feet,
pulling the energy that way.
So we're just going, OK,
now go this way, please.
And the funny part is, now,
I was taught visualization.
And I was OK at it.
But my mind was so frantic.
I would go, and
I would visualize
what they wanted me to
visualize in like half a moment.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: Have you
ever done that, Lisa?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: You visualize what
they want you to visualize.
And then you think of
28 other permutations.
And then you think
you didn't do it.
And you're not sure
you're doing it.
You're not sure
you're doing it right.
And you're like, then you
think about when you were six,
and somebody asked
you to do something.
And then you're
out of it, right?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: Well, with this,
all you have to do is ask.
OK?
All you have to do is ask.
Cool.
You don't even have
to visualize it.
Or you can.
That's fine, too.
See, and one of the things is,
it's like one of the things
that we don't often
think about is--
and you don't want
your hands to touch--
>>LISA: Oh, thank you.
>>HEER: --or your
head might explode.
>>LISA: OK, don't
want that to happen.
>>HEER: And I really want
to be responsible for that
on Gaiam television.
>>LISA: Right.
>>HEER: I'll be known as the
guy who exploded Lisa's head.
I'll be like, sorry, guys.
I mean, I loved her, too.
I really did.
I'm really sorry.
All my fault.
>>LISA: I love your
sense of humor.
It's so great.
>>HEER: So it's like this.
It's really where
what this can be
is just a contribution
to everything for you.
Now, if you put your hands
up like this, please.
Kind of like that, there we go.
Cool.
Now, I'm putting
my middle finger
in the middle of her palms
and her middle finger
in the middle of mine.
Now, this time the
energy's going in her head,
through her arms, through mine,
and out the top of my head.
Now if you were to do nothing
other than these first three
things I just showed you--
>>LISA: Now, are you feeling
the exchange of energy here?
Or are you just a neutral
kind of conduit for the energy
to flow?
>>HEER: I'm kind of
just being with you.
And also I'm perceiving it.
Like, are you noticing it?
Are you noticing sort of--
well, how would you describe it,
that would be a good addition.
>>LISA: Neutral.
Absolute neutrality.
And total calming.
Complete calming.
And the monkey mind went away.
>>HEER: Yeah.
And isn't it interesting?
Within three minutes we have
the monkey mind already starting
to go away.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: That monkey
mind is not your friend.
That monkey mind
is not something
that contributes to you.
It's something that
detracts from you.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: Let's change that.
And this changes it more
dynamically than almost
anything I know.
And I've got to say, having
worked with thousands of people
with this around
the world, literally
I've seen this start to be
a major component in undoing
depression in people.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>HEER: So of course--
>>LISA: Yes.
Total--
>>HEER: Sorry, you can put
your hands back on your--
>>LISA: I don't want to.
I'm want to--
>>HEER: I know.
You're like, no.
Keep going, baby.
Raise the roof.
>>LISA: Raise the roof.
>>HEER: Raise the
roof of possibilities.
>>LISA: You get giddy.
>>HEER: I know.
It's like, I want to play.
I want to have fun.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HEER: And you know what?
Your hands are touching.
So we know what that means.
>>LISA: Ah!
OK.
>>HEER: So the
next one-- and I'll
show you probably
two or three more,
just so we can give you a sense.
These are some of
the most dynamic ones
that we have that we run.
OK.
So behind the ear, if
you put your finger--
let's turn your head this
way just a little bit.
Perfect.
Thank you.
So if you put your hands right
behind the person's ears.
Now, not down on an
neck, that's different.
Right behind the ears.
You're going to go over a
ridge and into a valley.
In other works, they'll be
just like this little bump.
And then all of a sudden
your fingers will rest there.
Now, this is the
beginning of the Bars.
The first thing that
we did was sort of-- we
call this the Energy Pool.
The first three things that we
did we call the Energy Pool.
And those are just designed
to get the energy moving.
What this is called is something
called the Implant Band.
And what's an implant?
Well, how much-- how many of
the points of view have you
perceived around you in
the world that kind of
run your life, but they're
not even your point of view?
That would be like an implant.
Like, if you could imagine
somebody coming along-- like,
Lisa, have you
ever known somebody
who they had a mother
or something who
would come along and poke
and push their buttons?
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
>>HEER: Uh-huh.
You're like, uh-huh, I do.
>>LISA: I can think
about that, yeah..
>>HEER: And what happens
is those buttons act
kind of like implants.
Like the person pushes them.
And they activate.
And the person gets all
hot under the collar,
and they don't even
know what happened.
What this is doing
is it's actually
dissipating those buttons.
It's basically getting
rid of your hot buttons.
One of the things we say
about the Bars is it's
like defragging your hard
drive, upgrading your operating
system, getting a new monitor,
getting a new keyboard,
and going on with an
anti-virus program that
keeps it from ever
happening again.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>HEER: So it's kind of-- and
do you notice a sense of space?
>>LISA: Totally.
That--- yes.
>>HEER: It's like, oh.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HEER: So guys watching at
home-- guys, ladies, people,
dogs, animals, whatever-- you
want to notice if you just
close your eyes
for just a moment,
notice if there's anything
changing in your body.
Notice if there's any sense
of more space or just more
quietness perhaps.
And the thing is, some
of us may notice it
more readily than others.
And if you don't, please
don't make yourself wrong.
That's the exact opposite
of what this is about.
What this really is
about is starting
to come out of the
wrongness of you.
>>LISA: It's like I had a
bunch of furniture in my head.
And the furniture is-- it's a
one, giant, gorgeous open room.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: And that's the
space from which to create.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: And that's
exactly what it is.
It's the space from
which to create.
See, it's interesting, because
we have this concept of space
as though it's empty.
But it's not.
It's actually that space
where the potential
for all possibilities exists.
It's just we've been
taught that it's empty.
But physicists are now
talking about the idea
that space is actually
where the real action is,
where the real mojo exists.
>>LISA: In the space?
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: Which is kind
of an interesting idea
that physicists are
now starting to prove
the very basics
of consciousness.
But you have to go to the
furthest end of physics
to figure it out.
>>LISA: I could see that someone
would get into-- well, someone
who meditates a lot would feel
this experience right now.
But I got here faster than
a 20, 30 minute meditation.
>>HEER: Yeah.
And that's the
thing about it is we
should have tools that
are as fast as possible.
So the thing is let's
say you meditate.
Well, what if you
could do this, and it
would allow your
meditation to go
deeper and wider and greater.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
>>HEER: See, it's
not about going,
oh, well, let's
cut out meditation.
>>LISA: Instead.
>>HEER: Let's just do Bars.
It's like, why instead?
That's like doing the
thing about the angels
and only taking one
piece of the pie.
Let's increase the pie
we're willing to have.
Let's invite ourselves to the
universe of possibilities.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: I know I sound
intense sometimes
when I talk about that.
OK.
Next one we're going
to do-- I'm going
to have you lean forward
just a little bit.
Sorry, just tilt your
head forward I mean.
You follow instructions
too well sometimes.
OK, so this one is
called the Aging Toaster.
Now, do any of you have any
considerations about getting
older, getting wrinkles,
and getting grey hair?
Who of us doesn't, right?
>>LISA: You're on a
few of them actually.
Yup.
>>HEER: You're like don't
pan in, don't focus.
OK.
So here's the thing.
The Aging Toaster is in line
with the inside of the eyes
up on the top of the head.
And it's basically
where the nose
is, the center line of the
head, just about a half
an inch out from there.
So tilt your head forward
just a little bit more.
Right there.
OK.
And you can tilt your
head up, because that
tends to be a lot
more comfortable.
Now, usually you'd be
doing this on a table.
And if you're on a
table with somebody,
let's say they're
lying down, you
can just put your fingers
there like that really lightly.
>>LISA: Real gently.
Yeah, it's not applying
any pressure are all.
It's just moving energy.
>>HEER: No pressure at all.
And the beauty of
it is this really
is sort of the epitome of
ask and you shell receive.
>>LISA: I was just thinking
of the word receive.
>>HEER: Ah.
So check this out.
One of the things
that we let people
know about the Bars is that
it literally, for some of us,
is the first place where we
ever truly have the willingness
to lie there and receive--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: --or to receive period.
Because we're so busy
in our lives trying
to control everything and
trying to make it work
and trying to make
it happen and trying
to have everything be OK, that
we often forget that receiving
is actually one of the keys to
having everything we desire.
It's also one of the keys to
creating change in the world.
>>LISA: And it's also one
of the least frequent things
we do is receive, especially
us giving machines.
Yeah.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
And that's the interesting
part is, like you mentioned,
the giving machines.
Part of what this
starts to create
is the place where you realize
you don't just have to give.
You can not only receive,
but that that in itself
is actually a gift.
>>LISA: To receive a healing
is such a great gift.
I mean, as a mom and
a busy working mom,
I'm giving, giving,
giving, all day.
And then at the end of my day, I
give, give, give and give more.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: And I give until I
can't give anymore sometimes.
>>HEER: And that for
all of us is basically
the beginning of adrenal
fatigue, exhaustion,
all that sort of thing.
And this is
interesting, because one
of the things that I've
noticed with the people who've
received Bars is what they'll
actually do is go hey,
can I get my Bars run please?
And they start to feel
rejuvenated and replenished
again.
It changes the
physiology somehow.
It seems to change it, so
that rather than functioning
in these walls and these
barriers where it feels
like we're all alone, and
no one will give to us,
and nothing will give to us, and
we don't know how to actually
get any energy in,
all of a sudden
we start to have energy
available in our bodies.
>>LISA: And this just by
touching these access points--
>>HEER: Yes.
Isn't that weird?
>>LISA: --that moves the energy?
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: That's incredible.
>>HEER: That's what I
thought when I first had it.
This is literally
what saved my life.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: And I went, wait a
minute that was really simple.
I thought it was going to
be a lot harder than that.
I know.
So the next, we're just
going to do two more.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HEER: Or actually, one
more right now-- you'll see.
OK.
So now, here's the funny part.
I don't remember which
side is which, guys.
So you don't have to
remember which side is which.
Just asking for where
the points are can help.
So right over the
middle of eyebrows
there's joy and sadness.
I don't remember
which side is which.
One is joy, one is sadness.
But this is interesting, because
25 or 30 years ago, there
was an article in
the "New York Times,"
where these scientists had
found that they had stimulated
these points with an electrode.
And on one side if
they stimulated it,
they could induce hours of joy.
And on the other side
if they stimulate it,
they could induce
hours of sadness.
>>LISA: Who would want that?
>>HEER: And what
was interesting was
we had just started
doing Bars at the time.
And we just started doing
Bars at the time and we went,
wait a minute.
Wow, that's interesting.
OK.
So apparently science
is catching up.
So there's joy and sadness.
And then right up here,
basically in the same line--
we had the Aging
Toaster right here,
which deals with
issues of aging, which
deals with all your points
of view about aging,
about what it's like
when you get older,
what it has to be like,
and what it can be like,
and what it won't be like.
>>LISA: The Aging
Toaster part eliminates
all of that concern about aging,
so that you can age gracefully.
>>HEER: Yes.
Exactly.
Without a point of view.
>>LISA: Without a
point of view about it.
>>HEER: Without a point of view,
and that's the beauty of it.
Then it's like, OK, well, when
you don't have a point of view
that wrinkles
should develop, it's
funny how you get less wrinkles.
>>LISA: I was just-- exactly.
You don't have stress about it.
So you're not fixated on it.
>>HEER: Exactly.
>>LISA: And that's youthing.
>>HEER: Yeah.
And that's what it can invite.
And so we have joy
and sadness here.
And on the top of the
head where my thumbs are--
can you tilt your head forward--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: --we have
body and sexuality.
>>LISA: Hm.
>>HEER: OK.
You can lift your head back up.
>>LISA: That's what
we were talking about
before with the abuse
that you experienced.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Now, when you
had this experience,
did it light up and
break that up for you?
Is that what you
were talking about?
>>HEER: It did,
and it was actually
the beginning of lightening that
up and breaking it up for me.
And then later I had to use
some of the more, I don't know,
in depth Access tools that
really started changing it.
And one of the things
that we got out of it
is a CD that we call "Clearing
the Issues of Abuse."
And literally, this is
an hour and 45 minutes,
or two hour, two
hour and a half CD.
It's on two CDs.
But it's created more change in
people who've experienced abuse
than anything I've ever seen.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>HEER: And we have
psychotherapists
who give it to their
clients, so that they
can start getting over
the issues of abuse.
And then they handle
the other stuff
that comes up as they go along.
It's just kind of an
amazing gift to the world.
And I looked at that.
And I went, wow, you know what?
This is very interesting,
because had I not
experienced the abuse
that I experienced,
I would not have been
there to help contribute
to this thing that has been a
gift to a lot of other people.
So one of things I'd
ask all of you out there
is what are the experiences
that you've had in your life
that you've been judging
you for even having
gone through that if you
didn't judge you anymore,
could be a gift in how you could
inspire other people to know
that change is possible?
>>LISA: So you stop
judging yourself
>>HEER: Yeah, exactly.
And notice here.
So we're doing joy and
sadness, where these guys are.
Up here, we're doing
body and sexuality.
Now, if you could
imagine-- what do you do?
What do we do when
we're having a bad day?
We go-- we put our hand
on our head, right?
Why?
To activate the
joy and the sadness
Bars to try to dissipate
what's sticking us
about the situation that's
been going on during our day.
So inherently, we try
to do these things.
But nobody's ever sort of walked
us through point by point,
step by step, and gone
hey, you know what?
Here's how to do it directed.
>>LISA: Now, the reason that
you have both joy and sadness
touching is because
you're saying
to be able to have
both of those emotions
and space for both of
those emotions, is OK?
>>HEER: Now, here's
the interesting thing.
What happens is when you can
have sadness and not judge it,
it leads to joy.
When you can have
sadness and not judge it,
joy can come along a lot faster.
And so what this does
is it dissipates what
makes you think you have
to judge the sadness,
dissipates what makes you
believe you can't have joy.
Because joy is actually
a natural state
for an infinite being,
which we all are.
And this allows you
to start accessing it.
And you don't even
have to think about it.
The thing I love about
this is it's not, oh,
I'm going to try
to be happy now.
It's like, wow, I
just feel happier.
How did that happen?
>>LISA: Yeah, exactly.
>>HEER: Because that should
be our natural state.
>>LISA: I feel completely
different in terms
of relaxed and allowing
a flow to happen more
connected with you in a
completely harmonious place.
>>HEER: Cool.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HEER: I think part of the
beauty of this also is so do I.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>HEER: The interesting
thing is when
you give a session,
you also get a session.
So there are people out there
that do nothing but run Bars.
They very seldom receive them.
But they notice that they always
have this sense of connection.
They always have
this sense of flow.
And so it's from when
you gift and truly gift,
you also receive simultaneously.
>>LISA: So the natural energy
flow happens between two people
without trying to
make it happen,
without a forced
healing happening.
>>HEER: Yeah.
Without one person
forcing it on the other.
It's like, hi.
I'm here with you.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: You know?
Hi.
>>LISA: Totally present.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Completely present.
I am walking this
planet with you.
What can I contribute to you?
And in contributing that to you,
what might change in our world?
>>LISA: Thus the
title of your book,
"Being You, Changing the World."
Because if we were all
walking around like this,
complete fullness, present
state of love and connection,
what a better place
this would be.
>>HEER: Yeah.
No kidding, right?
>>LISA: Yeah.
Worldwide.
>>HEER: Truly.
>>LISA: Well, thank you.
You're a blessing to us.
Thank you for showing
this on the air.
This is the first time that
you've been able to do this.
>>HEER: Truly.
And you are so welcome.
And obviously, there's
a lot more points.
There's more to it.
But I wanted to give
people a gift that they
could start using right now.
>>LISA: Right now.
>>HEER: So they can
start changing the things
in their lives they
want to change.
Because when you start
changing, there's
this really wonderful
thing that occurs.
Let's say you have a lot
of things in your life,
and you're sort of backed up,
and stocked up, and sludged up,
you know what I mean?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: But there are things
where you're like that.
And then you've been
wanting to change them.
And they don't change.
And then all of a sudden,
something comes along.
And you sense it changing.
It gives you hope.
It lets you know,
OK, all is not lost.
I can carry on.
>>LISA: It's going to be OK.
>>HEER: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HEER: It's going to be OK.
>>LISA: It's going to be OK.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: It's just like you just
came along and said that to me.
It's all going to be OK.
>>HEER: Cool.
>>LISA: Even though
nothing was really wrong--
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: --it's all
going to be OK.
>>HEER: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Wow.
Well, thank you so
much for sharing this.
Take this technique on.
There's of course more to this.
And you could find
out more about it
at accessconsciousness.com.
And if you want to watch a
replay of my other interviews
with Dain, you can
go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time as always,
I invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]